All right we're going to start working on modeling our assets and bringing them here into unity.
But you know what I was thinking as we create these and as we texture them and bring them in here it
would be nice to have the lighting set up here in the room a little bit more like it's going to be for
the final version because take a look at the lamp here let me zoom in here with the F key and you can
see the reflection on this object right.
You can see that and all it is is the reflection of this big environment.
Just that horizon line and the sky and that's not very realistic to what's going to be in the room.
In addition this directional light here is more like sunlight in that it's just parallel rays of light
spread out infinitely across the scene and lights the scene in a way that we really wouldn't see inside
an interior room.
And as I'm thinking about it this particular room is going to be the home of two guys who are trying
to keep a secret.
The overall project working on here is for this to be an apartment of people who are trying to hide
I don't want people to see them so the blinds are closed.
The place is usually pretty dark even during the day.
So thinking about the story and and what's going to happen in this environment makes me think we should
go ahead and work on some of the lighting now so that as we bring our other assets in we can get a sense
of how they're going to look and what tweaks they might need in terms of the texturing and even the
modeling.
So let's think about lighting here.
First of all let's deal with that reflection as we saw on the lamp here.
The reflection here is just not at all appropriate for an indoor scene.
What we can do is use an HDR image to kind of fake the reflections here that are happening on relatively
shiny objects.
So what I've done is I've gone out to Google and I've searched for HDR II images and I've used the search
tools and chosen large and I've found some HDR images here that look pretty good.
Now keep in mind if you are actually producing a game to sell you need to acquire the rights to images
to use them right or create them on your own.
But for our purposes here I want to find an image that is kind of an indoor scene.
And I found one here I think this is going to be kind of nice.
This image can be found at Lugar texture here.
I'm going to open this up right here.
So please go check them out.
They have some nice textures here.
So many use this image.
So the reason why I like this it it's an interior scene it has the ceiling and floor it has some wood
color to it.
I think it's going to work well here in our scene so let's bring it in.
I'm going to click and drag it right into my assets folder right here.
And there we are.
I want to select it and I want to change it from a texture to a cube map and hit apply.
Now you can see that the texture has been kind of wrapped around a sphere here and this will give us
the ability to apply this to a cube map material.
So let's create that material now.
I'm going to right click go to create material and let's call this let's call this HDR II.
So we know what it is.
And for this let's change the type of material or Shater it is from standard to Sky box and cube map
right here.
So now that we've done that we can take our cube map here and drag it right into the cube map here and
there we go.
Now you can see we're inside that cube map right.
And you can see all around here.
Now we need to apply this to the lighting of the scene.
So here in lighting we want to drag our new cube map our HDR cube map here right into the skybox slot.
So grab this drag it up here drop it there and now look what happens.
The quality of the light changes quite a bit now because we're getting a huge amount of diffuse light
coming from that image.
And if we zoom in here and kind of tumble around you can see that the reflection is more what we would
expect for an interior scene.
We've got wood we've got a floor we've got ceilings so you can really get a sense that we're in an interior
space.
Now this particular scene has a kitchen right here and it's reflecting that kitchen counter here.
We can change what is reflecting from this angle by rotating the image around the scene.
So if I come back over here to the material and go back to the inspector we can see in the materials
settings that we have this rotation field and we can click and drag that and maybe move the reflection
around like that.
So now we're not seeing that kitchen in the reflection.
We can keep going on around and see what we can get.
Yeah that's not bad there.
So now we've got a different quality of light in here.
And you know what we can also go ahead and take away that directional light and see what happens.
All right click that and choose delete.
And now we've got just a general diffuse light coming in from our HDR image here.
So here it is now we're going to want to put other kinds of lights in here of course because we're going
to need shadow light and dark areas pools of light.
We're going to really want to try and create a mood with the lighting.
So I do know that I'm going to have probably a bare bulb hanging over here somewhere kind of in the
middle of the room.
The guys who live here aren't real into the design and you know decoration.
So I'm going to go and create just a point light at least for now just to get a sense of the scene.
All right click over here.
Choose light and point light.
And there we go.
So there's our point light.
I'm going to drag it over here say it's going to be hanging right around here.
I'm not exactly sure yet but I think maybe just kind of hanging a bare bulb right around here.
And I want to get a sense of the shadows here as well.
So we can come over here and with the lights selected I can turn on say hard shadows and you can begin
to see them there.
Now one thing about it is when you turn on the shadows you may notice that the Shadows are kind of separating
out from the objects and one of the main things you need to ground and object to the floor to make it
seem realistic is to have those shadows connecting with the object.
So what we can do is change the bias.
If you click and drag this you can see that you can take the shadow away from the object and bring it
closer to the object like that.
So I want to get it.
So it's maybe like point to 0 or 1 really close there.
You can also change this shadow near plane and you can see how it can move away from that as well.
Well I want this pretty low down like that as well.
Now we can also adjust to say the range of our point light so maybe it doesn't illuminate the whole
scene maybe it just illuminates kind of that center part of the room so we can play with that quite
a bit.
What I'd also like to do is get rid of this image in the background here.
To do that we can come over to the main camera under the player and under the clear flags we can change
that to solid color.
Change that black and for the viewport if we want to turn this off back here we can just come up here
to this pull down and turn off the skybox There we go.
So now we've got the Sky box in there.
It isn't visible but it is visible still in our reflections here.
So that's what we want.
And if we run the game we can see that our reflections are still visible here in the lamp.
So that's helped with the reflections and as we go through the process of creating and texturing our
assets here we might want to say reduce the amount of light here in the room.
We could always come back to our HDR material and we can reduce the exposure a bit.
Turn it down a bit so it isn't quite so hot.
So this will just allow us to try and get that final look of the scene as we go so we can really tell
how our objects are going to look in the scene.
Now I think what I'll do is go ahead and create a cube and scale it and bring it in for the roof or
the ceiling here and maybe I'll go ahead and textured these walls as well in the same way we did these.
And then we can begin moving on and creating more of the objects.